# 10. HonOR Guard

Dust cloaks the contents of this twenty-foot-wide hall. Six alcoves line the walls, three to the north and three to the south. Each alcove except the southwest one holds a humanoid figure carved of red-veined white marble. The figures resemble tall elves in plate armor. A stone archway at the west end of the hall opens into a wide room from which greenish light glows. A dark pit is situated before the archway.

Southwest Alcove. A successful DC 10 Wisdom (Perception) check reveals that the dust in the room is disturbed by tracks that start in the southwest alcove, though the tracks are filled in enough that the disturbance must have occurred dozens of years ago. A successful DC 10 Wisdom (Survival) check enables a character to determine that the tracks were made by tiny humanoid feet with claw-like nails. They begin in the center of the alcove, move west toward the pit, and then disappear into the pit. A character who enters the pit to follow the tracks must make another successful DC 10 Wisdom (Survival) check to pick up the trail again.
Spiked Pit. The pit is 10 feet deep, and its bottom is filled with spikes that deal 11 (2d10) piercing damage to a creature that falls in, as well as falling damage. The
walls of the pit are rough, and they offer handholds to climbers. Area 12 begins on its far side.

Creature. A quasit named Jot was bound in the southwestern alcove an age ago to guard the contents of the sarcophagus in area 12. It was in suspended animation until a few decades ago, and it now waits on the other side of the arch just out of sight in area 12. Jot is alerted by any light source the characters have, so it can prepare for them. (If the characters have no light source and are stealthy, Jot might not become aware of them.) The quasit darts out of its hiding place and attacks the first creature that climbs out of the pit on the western side.

Development. Jot doesn't fight to the death. If it takes any damage, or if more than one character attacks it, Jot laughs and says, "You broke the binding. My watch over the dragonpriest is over!" It uses its next action to become invisible. It then turns into a bat and flies along the 10 -foot-high ceiling across the pit.

If Jot escapes, the characters might see it again. It knows that death on the Material Plane means a return to the Abyss, so it prefers to harass the characters while they are otherwise engaged, laughing and mocking as it does so.

Secret Door. Finding the door on the southern wall requires a successful DC 20 Wisdom (Perception) check. The door opens with a simple push inward.