# 12. Tomb of a Failed Dragonpriest

Violet marble tiles cover the floor and walls, though all are cracked or broken, revealing rough-hewn stone beneath. Sconces are attached to the walls at each corner. One holds a torch that burns with greenish fire. A marble sarcophagus, easily nine feet long, lies in the room's center. The coffin is carved with dragon imagery, and the head of the sarcophagus resembles a dragon's head. Rusting iron clasps firmly lock down the lid.

Torch. The greenish fire is a continual flame spell. Sarcophagus. Six rusted iron latches hold down the sarcophagus lid. Opening a single latch requires a

---

successful DC 15 Strength check. If the six latches are opened, the lid can be removed with a successful DC 15 Strength check or by the effort of any combination of characters whose combined Strength is 30 or higher.
Inside, a dragonpriest lies imprisoned, kept alive by virtue of a sequester spell that is dispelled with a flash of green light when the sarcophagus is opened. If the characters look inside, read:

In the coffin is a troll! It's dressed in rotted finery, but its jewelry and rings adorned with tiny silver dragons still sparkle. The creature's body is shrunken and elongated, and its flesh is a rubbery, putrid green. Its black hair is long, thick, and ropy. Its beady black eyes flash open, and it snarls.

This dragonpriest delved into magic that the dragon cult deemed profane-he permanently transformed himself from an elf into a troll. For this crime, the cult entombed him alive, though the honor of his station remained. The dragonpriest attacks his rescuers, his mind all but transformed to that of a troll over the ages of his burial. He had a name, but he has forgotten it, although he has not forgotten how to speak Elvish and Draconic.
Creature. In his current state, the dragonpriest is slower and weaker than a normal troll. Use troll statistics, but the dragonpriest starts with 30 hit points, regenerates only 5 hit points per round (up to normal for a troll), and can't use Multiattack. If he is defeated in this state, the dragonpriest is worth 450 XP.
Development. The dragonpriest won't pursue fleeing characters. Instead, he continues to repose in his tomb until hunger finally draws him forth to hunt five days later. By that time, he uses the normal troll statistics, retaining his additional languages.
Treasure. The dragonpriest has an ornate ceremonial dagger (worth 125 gp ), two silver rings ( 15 gp each), and a silver amulet ( 15 gp ). Scattered across the bottom of the sarcophagus are $220 \mathrm{sp}, 50 \mathrm{gp}$, and four spell scrolls: command, cure wounds (2nd level), inflict wounds (2nd level), and guiding bolt (2nd level).