# 18. Prison

Each door that lead to the prison chamber is locked, requiring a DC 15 Dexterity check using thieves' tools to unlock, and also barred on the outside with an iron rod. If a character attempts to open either door while any kobolds are present, the kobolds warn against doing so. Opening a door in spite of this warning turns the kobolds hostile.

Four small humanoids are shackled by thick, rusted chains attached to a large iron spike set in the floor. Several broken weapons and sundered shields lie in one corner.

Creatures. Four goblins are chained here, taken prisoner during the course of several skirmishes. Every so often, the kobolds remove a goblin from the room and ransom it back to the goblins (for a price of 2 d 10 sp ). Those who can't be ransomed are bound for the kobold cook pot. The goblins whine and cower pathetically if any characters enter the room. A character who succeeds on a DC 15 Dexterity check using thieves' tools can open the lock on the chains, or the chains can be broken (Strength DC 20) or sundered (AC 15, 60 hit points).

The goblins promise anything and everything in exchange for their release, including safe passage for the characters to their chief. The creatures have no power to guarantee their promises, however. In addition, if the goblins are released, any understanding the characters have with the kobolds is voided. Freed goblins flee at the first hint of trouble, and they double-cross their rescuers if threatened by other goblins.