# 21. Dragon Throne

A short throne stands near the west wall, constructed of fallen bits of masonry stacked against an old altar. On the top of the altar sit a variety of small items. The portion of the altar that serves as the throne's back features a carving of a rearing dragon. A metallic key is held firmly in the dragon's open jaws.

Creatures. Normally sitting on the throne is the kobolds' leader, Yusdrayl (see appendix B). Two elite kobolds ( 7 hit points each) guard her. Those who come to Yusdrayl's chamber can talk to her; she is hostile only if she knows that the characters have slain other kobolds. Characters who antagonize her while talking earn the leader's ire and a savage attack.

Yusdrayl can speak to the following questions:
Why are kobolds in this place? "Kobolds are heir to dragons. As the mightiest among my people, I have led a brave few to this ancient holy site, where dragons were worshiped long ago." Yusdrayl knows nothing else about the history of the fortress, except the name of the dragon that was once revered here, which is Ashardalon.
What about the goblins/fruit/Belak? "The Outcast, he lives below. He grows the fruit, which he gives to the goblins. The dragon-thieving goblins are his servants!"

---

What about the twig monsters? "The twig blights are pets of the Outcast. They are more numerous below, in the Twilight Grove."
What about the lost human adventurers? "They went to fight the goblins and never returned."
What about the stolen wyrmling dragon? "The goblins stole our dragon! If you return Calcryx to us, I shall grant you a reward. Meepo can accompany you if you desire."
If the characters decide to go looking for the dragon, the kobolds direct them toward the passage that connects area 15 and area 25 , which is the "back way" into goblin territory. Yusdrayl and her followers know nothing useful about the goblin lair. If the characters take Meepo with them, he can serve as their guide to that location. If Meepo goes along and is slain, the kobolds count it as a small loss as long as the dragon is rescued.
Possible rewards include the key in the carved dragon's mouth, or any two of the items on the altar. Yusdrayl is also willing to sell the key for 50 gp .
Development. If hostilities break out, reinforcements arrive in the manner described in area 19.
If the characters return Calcryx, Yusdrayl can be convinced to aid them in an assault on the remaining goblins. You determine the nature of the aid.
Treasure. The key clenched in the mouth of the carved dragon opens the door to area 7 . Yusdrayl has keys to area 18 and the chains there, a key to the doors in area 24 , and a key that once fit the cage in area 15. She also has 35 gp .
The items assembled on the altar include a Quaal's feather token (tree), three spell scrolls (mage armor, spider climb, and knock), and a small flask that contains three doses of elixir of health.