# 3. Grumbled Courtyard

The narrow stairs empty into a small courtyard, apparently the top of what was once a crenellated battlement. The buried citadel has sunk so far into the earth that the battlement is now level with the surrounding floor. That floor stretches away to the north and south, composed of a layer of treacherous, crumbled masonry, which reaches to an unknown depth. To the west looms the surviving structure of what must be the Sunless Citadel. A tower stands on the west side of the courtyard.

The stone courtyard, surrounded by crumbled masonry, contains a trap and a wooden door.
Masonry Debris. An expanse of crumbled masonry surrounds the entire citadel. Those attempting to cross it immediately note its unsteadiness. The rubble is difficult terrain. Anyone who moves across the debris must make a DC 10 Dexterity (Acrobatics) check for each 10 feet traversed. On a failed check, the character is unable to move. If the check fails by 5 or more, a slab of masonry below the character shifts, dumping the character into a debris-lined cavity. Climbing back out requires a successful DC 10 Strength (Athletics) check; on a failed check, the victim drops back into the cavity.
Creatures. Each time a creature falls into a cavity, the noise is 10 percent likely to draw 1 d 4 giant rats from the dozens that infest the rubble field. Attracted rats move carefully and stealthily through the rubble to attack.

---

Hidden Pit. The map shows the location of a concealed trapdoor that covers a 10 -foot-square, 10 -footdeep pit. A 2 -foot-wide catwalk on the west edge allows access to the door that leads to area 4 . It takes a successful DC 15 Wisdom (Perception) check to note the trapdoor's unmortared edge. Then, a successful DC 10 Intelligence (Investigation) check lets a character deduce the location of the catwalk and how the pit operates.
If a creature steps on the trapdoor, the lid flips open, dumping the creature into the pit. With a successful DC 15 Dexterity check, a creature can use thieves' tools to jam the lid shut. A mechanism resets the trap 1 minute after the door opens, pushing it back into the closed position. The mechanism is in the pit wall under the catwalk. A creature can jam it in the open position with a successful DC 15 Dexterity check using thieves' tools. If this check succeeds by 5 or more, the mechanism can be permanently disabled if desired.
Creature. The pit contains two goblin skeletons, one goblin that has been dead for about a day, and one live giant rat. The rat, which slipped into the pit to feed on the fresh goblin but was caught when the trap reset, attacks creatures inside the pit or climbs out to attack those nearby.
Treasure. The goblin corpse has a scimitar and a shield, as well as 23 sp and 4 gp in a belt pouch.