# 40. Goblinville

Anyone who stands within 10 feet of a door leading to the goblins' main living area can hear the voices of the goblins inside, unless they have been alerted to danger.

What might once have been a cathedral is now a goblin lair, thick with the filth of years of goblin life. Scores of wall- and floor-mounted sconces filled with violet-glowing fungi provide illumination. Dozens of goblins go about their daily business, which involves a lot of rudeness and violence. Along the southern wall is a heaping pile of assorted items, including wagon wheels, broken armor and rusted arms, chests, small statues, antique furniture, and artwork.

Creatures. Thirty-four goblins are at home when the characters arrive, but only four of the goblins are warriors. Ten of the other goblins are commoners, but with 3 hit points each and a -1 reduction to hit and damage compared to the Monster Manual statistics. The other twenty creatures are noncombatants, too feeble or too fearful to defend themselves; they try to flee through the northernmost or the eastern exit. This stampede should dominate the first moments of battle, and even the gob-

---

lins capable of fighting refuse to stick around just to lose their lives. Noncombatants are worth no XP.
These goblinoids know the same information, in cruder form, that Erky in area 34 knows.
Development. An attack on the goblins brings reinforcements from area 36 and warns the goblin chief in area 41 that something is amiss. Grenl, the goblin shaman in area 41, might emerge to protect the tribe.
Investigating. The goblins collect the phosphorescent fungi from the grove below. They need its light for close work, such as reading, and the fungus is edible. Crude equipment for cooking, skinning game, tanning hides, and other basic gear fills the area. Food is usually collected from the Underdark through area 43.
Treasure. Among the tribal equipment, near the shaman's bedding, is a healer's kit and a poisoner's kit.
The pile along the southern wall contains the tribe's loot, mixed in with lots of other stuff taken from the goblins' victims. The characters can find almost any piece of mundane gear that has a value of 5 gp or lower. Two items of considerable value can be unearthed by separate successful DC 15 Wisdom (Perception) checks: a fine agate statue of the elven deity Corellon Larethian (worth 30 gp ) and a Medium chain shirt.