# 47. Belak's Laboratory

Two rows of dragon-carved marble columns march the length of the hall, most completely covered in luminescent fungus. The cobbled floor is cracked and stained, and on it sit many small wooden tables. The contents on the tables include mortars and pestles, small tools, bowls filled with crushed leaves, chopped fungus stalks, and other plant specimens. The many doors leading off this hall are all partly open.

Belak prepares various experimental concoctions in his laboratory and the small chambers that lead off it (see the sections below), with the fumbling aid of goblins that

---

serve him. Any noise or disturbance in the main area draws all the monsters, although those in the northwest chamber respond most slowly.
Investigating. The containers on the small tables in the main area hold mashed leaves, fungus, bark, and powdered roots. A character who makes a successful DC 10 Intelligence (Nature) check identifies many common varieties of tree, shrub, and fungus, although all have a pronounced pallor, as if sun-starved.
Treasure. One pile of herbs and supplies in the main chamber contains the ingredients of a healer's kit. An assortment of tools and herbs can be salvaged to make up a herbalism kit and a set of alchemist's supplies.
Northwest Chamber. Snores are audible from the room to the northwest, which is a rough barracks. Sixteen small pallets of matted fur cover the floor. Two pallets currently hold a sleeping goblin and two goblin commoners (like those in area 40).
Southwest Chamber. The goblins use a crude mashing, straining, and casking facility to create goblin wine, which they and Belak are quite fond of. Two goblin commoners currently stand barefoot in the mashing-tun, squashing roots and fungi into pulp. A dirty straining bin stands nearby, as well as ten 2 -gallon casks of the end product.
North Central Chamber. Two goblin commoners currently repair dirty goblin armor with cord, iron needles, leather patches, and other crude implements of tailoring.
South Central Chamber. One goblin and two goblin commoners monitor the health of a diseased giant rat, which is strapped spread-eagled onto a wooden bench. The rat suffers from horrible tumors that look woody and fruit-like. Its tumors stem from an elixir Belak created to infuse twig blight traits into giant rats.
On a stand in the corner is a fancy crystal vial (worth 5 gp ) that contains the elixir. Drinking the elixir exposes the drinker to the same disease that the diseased rat might impart with its bite, except the initial saving throw DC is 15 .
Northeast Chamber. Extra weapon stores include five battered scimitars, six shortbows, and forty arrows.
Southeast Chamber. The room stands empty, and the caved-in back wall leads to a natural rift in the earth (see area 44).