# 53. Belak's Study

The wooden door leading to Belak's study is closed and locked. The lock can be undone by someone who uses thieves' tools and succeeds on a DC 20 Dexterity check.

A layer of soil covers the floor. Rough wooden shelves, filled with a scattering of tomes and scrolls, line the north and east walls, and a rough-hewn desk stands in the center of the chamber. Fungus on the ceiling provides light, apparently in sufficient quantity to nourish several small bushes and pale saplings that grow in the soil.

Investigating. In his study, Belak stores seasonal records of growth, precipitation, harvests, and similar notes for the surrounding lands for the last dozen years. One interesting tome titled (in Draconic) Treasures of the Fire Lords has a glyph of warding spell with an explosive runes effect on it. The glyph is on the second page, and it's triggered when someone opens to that page. Otherwise, the book is blank.

---

If the glyph is triggered, it erupts with magical energy in a 20 -foot-radius sphere centered on the book. The sphere spreads around corners. Each creature in the area must make a DC 12 Dexterity saving throw. A creature takes $22(5 \mathrm{~d} 8)$ cold damage on a failed saving throw, or half as much damage on a successful one. The cold doesn't damage the other works here.
Development. If any obvious disturbance occurs here, the goblins in area 54 set an ambush for intruders. They wait at least 10 minutes before coming to investigate.
Treasure. Separate successful DC 15 Wisdom (Perception) checks uncover a spell scroll of entangle, a spell scroll of protection from poison, and a tome on druidic theories on the cycle of life and death (worth 150 gp ). Cubbyholes in the desk hold 365 gp and four agate gems (20 gp each).