# 56. The Gulthias Tree

A walled clearing is here among the briars. The walls are about twenty feet high, which is less than half the height of the cavern's ceiling. Several varieties of plants grow around the perimeter of the clearing, including a few sus-picious-looking saplings, but their importance pales before that which stands at the courtyard's center. Beneath the fungal light grows an evil tree. Its blackened, twisted limbs reach upward, like a skeletal hand clawing its way out of the earth. Before it stand a few twig blights; a heavily armored, young human male with a shield and sword; a blonde, young human woman in a robe fit for a noble; and a middle-aged, bearded human male wearing a hooded brown robe and armed with a staff and sickle. The younger humans have black eyes and gray skin with the texture of bark.

Creatures. Belak the Outcast spends much of his time studying the Gulthias Tree, but he is well aware when the characters are approaching. He is a human druid, and he has the following spells prepared:
Cantrips (at will): druidcraft, poison spray, shillelagh 1st level (4 slots): cure wounds, entangle, faerie fire, thunderwave
2nd level (3 slots): barkskin, flaming sphere
Standing with Belak are Sir Braford and Sharwyn Hucrele (both described in appendix B). Belak's giant frog, Kulket, lurks stealthily in the branches of the Gulthias Tree. A character who has a passive Perception score of 15 or higher or succeeds on a DC 15 Wisdom (Perception) check spots the frog. If combat breaks out, the frog jumps down and joins the fight in the second round. Three twig blights are here, too.
Interaction. When the characters arrive, Belak says loudly, "Hold a moment, you know not what you do!" If the characters engage him in conversation, he can share the following information:
What are you doing? "I am Belak, called the Outcast. My circle expelled me, the fools. Why? Because I dared to expand nature's reach in ways they couldn't grasp. I have found what I sought in the Gulthias Tree." What is the Gulthias Tree? "It's beautiful, no? It lives, though it looks dead. In an age long past, someone

---